# Against the Bernsteinist Opportunism of MAGA Communism

The movement of revolutionary socialism is no stranger to the challenges of organization in the imperial core. A combination of proximity hegemonist finance and military, decades of anticommunist propoganda, and even esocial-chauvinism from within "leftists" have resulted in stagnated and splintered parties and organizations in modern United States history. Among western socialist movements, the so-called MAGA "Communists" have gained notoriety for their peculiar approach of dealing with these hurdles of socialist agitation in the heart of the American Empire. Instead of maintaining revolutionary transparency regarding the overthrow of capital and the abolition of private property, they seek to capitalize on the reactionary elements present in western superstructure, appealing to the glorification of petty-bourgoise and small-business. This strategy is not a novel one, as it parallels the position of revisionist social democrats of over a century ago, the same Lassalle and Bernstein that motivated Marx and Lenin to write countless polemics. In this work I will explain the faults in such a "MAGA" communism through selected quotations from the prominent figures in the movement.


## "The Rise of MAGA Communism" - Infrared

In 2022, Haz Al-Din, founder and Chairman of the American Communist Party (ACP), published ["The Rise of MAGA Communism"](https://showinfrared.substack.com/p/the-rise-of-maga-communism) under his alias Infrared. While outlining the strategy of appealing to reactionary yet working-class Americans, he clarifies the position against the total abolition of private property and the role he envisions the state taking in managing class structure:

> Communists do not want to ‘socialize’ people’s actual belongings or even businesses. The way in which actual relations of production will develop will be a matter of history. Marx & Engels that through the course of the actual development of the productive forces, the institution of private property will become superfluous, because productive relations will develop as forms of free association - production will have a substantive human quality based on relations between people, rather than abstractions like money. Communists do not want to force this outcome on people, but allow it to happen. It could not happen at the expense of what the people want, it could only happen as a result of the people’s own historical development. In the meantime, what Communists seek is the overthrow of the monopolists, the bankers, big pharma, big agriculture, big tech, and others - which have hijacked the American republic in the name of the ‘sacred institution of private property.’

> The Communist critique of private property allows for pro-people policies, including lowering taxation, ending government subsidies for the monopolists, and removing red tape - to actually happen, because it places the interests of the people above the interests of money and so-called ‘private property.’ Communists want the people to have more things, not less - more wealth, more businesses, and more prosperity. If the people have more of these things, than the productive forces accelerate faster, unleashing human prosperity and creativity to the point where things like Wall Street, the City of London, and other enemies of the people will never have the chance to take power again. The critique of private property doesn’t mean taking property away from people. It means using political power in a way that serves the common interests of the people, rather than the private interests of money. The contractual forms of association between the people - which allow people to secure their rights of ownership - will continue to exist far into the future, and will only disappear when they are rendered unnecessary by the productive forces - when no institutional challenge to their ownership will even exist.

-**Haz Al-Din**, ["The Rise of MAGA Communism"](https://showinfrared.substack.com/p/the-rise-of-maga-communism)
